


Latest News

Marine

5 minutes

October 27, 2014

Written by Nahee Kim, Marine Campaigner, Greenpeace Seoul Office

Illegal fishing is destroying the ocean ecosystem and our future.


Due to the reckless illegal fishing that is currently taking place around the world, the oceans are becoming increasingly destroyed and empty. Illegal fishing activities destroy the fragile marine ecosystem, catch marine life at will, lead to extinction, and destroy the balance of the ecosystem.



Will the ocean always be healthy and can we always catch an unlimited number of fish?

People have always thought that because the ocean is always healthy, we can catch an unlimited amount of fish whenever we need it. However, this 'misunderstanding', along with indiscriminate ocean pollution, has led to the risk of extinction of marine life such as whales. In order to prevent the sea from becoming desolate, 'order' and 'regulation' beyond the scope of one country became necessary, and each coastal country has preserved the sea by creating laws as the minimum conditions to maintain the marine ecosystem.

However, fishing activities continue without complying with the minimum regulations to support the marine ecosystem. The activity of catching fish without following the rules is called “illegal fishing.” 'Illegal fishing' is taking place in the form of catching more fish than required and failing to report it properly, catching fish that should not be caught, or even fishing without a permit and falsifying documents.

The sea is becoming increasingly destroyed and empty due to reckless and illegal fishing.

Due to the reckless illegal fishing that is currently taking place around the world, the oceans are becoming increasingly destroyed and empty. Illegal fishing activities destroy the fragile marine ecosystem, catch marine life at will, lead to extinction, and destroy the balance of the ecosystem.




Several statistics clearly show how serious the destruction of marine ecosystems caused by illegal fishing is. For example, it is known that the number of sharks killed by shark fins is actually 3 to 4 times higher than the number officially reported. What about salmon? Illegally caught Russian salmon are estimated to represent 60-90% of the legally caught and reported amount. It is said that the amount of Chilean Analects caught through illegal fishing is approximately 5-10 times the amount reported through legal catch. Illegal catches of skipjack tuna and endangered tuna species such as bigeye tuna and yellowfin tuna amount to approximately 500 million dollars (more than 500 billion won) annually.

As marine ecosystems are destroyed and fish and marine life suffer, the productivity of the ocean gradually decreases. If this situation continues, seafood that we used to eat as a side dish may soon become as valuable as gold. You may not think that illegal fishing will have an immediate impact on our food, but its impact in the near future is clear.






It makes poor countries poorer and violates the human rights of seafarers.

Illegal fishing has a terrible impact even on poor countries. Sea areas where illegal fishing occurs are often adjacent to poor countries such as Liberia, Somalia, and Sierra Leone in Africa. When fish are caught indiscriminately in the waters of poor countries, the fishermen in those countries end up with fewer fish to catch. The impact on the local economy is enormous as local fishermen plunder the marine resources they can catch. The economic loss caused by illegal fishing around the world is said to exceed 10 trillion won, so you can get an idea of ​​how big it is.

The human rights issue of seafarers working in the ocean-going industry is also one of the major examples of illegal fishing practices. Sailors who have to live on board ships for months in the open sea often experience violence, beatings, racial discrimination, and wage theft.

Join Greenpeace to prevent illegal fishing, which is also a problem in Korea!

Do you understand the problem of illegal fishing and what negative effects it has? However, what is surprising is that Korea, known as a deep-sea power, is carrying the stigma of being an illegal fishing country. Due to illegal fishing carried out by several deep-sea fishing companies, Korea was designated as an illegal fishing country by the United States in January last year and as a preliminary illegal fishing country by the European Union in November.

The thing that can most clearly regulate illegal fishing is 'law'. The Ocean Industry Development Act, which is currently used as a standard in deep-sea fishing, is insufficient to monitor and supervise illegal fishing. Greenpeace has announced a 'Ocean Fisheries Policy Reform Plan' to enable the government to more clearly manage/supervise and regulate illegal fishing in the ocean industry, and continues to communicate with the government.












