


press release

August 18, 2022

Text: Greenpeace

[Press release] Woo Young-woo’s beloved whale appears in the Seoul sky, “Please save the sea”


Greenpeace flew 300 drones over Seoul Forest at 9 p.m. on August 18th... Symbolizing endangered marine animals such as whales and sea turtles

Abnormal weather continues, from heat waves and forest fires to record-breaking heavy rains... Emphasizing the importance of the ocean in performing climate control functions in the ‘era of climate crisis’

Only 2% of the world's open seas are protected areas... A global ocean treaty is essential to prevent marine ecosystem extinction

Greenpeace sends an official letter to the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries requesting that it dispatch a high-level government delegation to the UN Convention on the Conservation of Marine Biological Diversity and demonstrate leadership in marine protection.


Greenpeace, an international environmental organization, flew 300 drones over the Seoul Forest Family Yard at 9 p.m. on Thursday, August 18, and imaged endangered sea creatures such as whales and sea turtles in the night sky to send a message about marine protection. reported. This drone show informs citizens of the importance of protecting the ocean, which plays a role in regulating the climate, at a time when increasingly serious abnormal weather events such as heat waves and heavy rains are occurring more frequently, and also informs the Korean government of the UN Marine Biodiversity Conservation (Biological Diversity) program, which started on the 15th. It was prepared to demand that we take the lead in protecting pollution at the 5th meeting of the Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction (BBNJ) Convention.





On this day, about 2,000 citizens gathered at the Seoul Forest Family Yard to admire the beautiful night sky drawn by 300 drones. It expresses the reality that whales and sea turtles that were swimming leisurely have disappeared and are on the verge of extinction. The messages “SAVE the Ocean” and “Save the Ocean” appeared in the sky where marine animals had disappeared, followed by the final message “30 The drone show has ended.

Greenpeace campaigner Kim Yeon-ha said, “With the 5th meeting of the United Nations Convention on the Conservation of Marine Biological Diversity starting at the United Nations New York Headquarters on the 15th, this marine protection drone show was held to urge governments together with citizens to conclude a global ocean treaty that will substantially protect the ocean. “We planned,” he said.

Campaigner Kim said, “The ‘high seas’, the seas that do not belong to any country, account for 61% of the world’s ocean area, but only 2% are designated as marine protected areas. As a result, marine destructive acts such as overfishing, marine waste dumping, and deep-sea mining are being committed in the high seas, which are not regulated by international law. As a result, marine animals such as whales and sea turtles are at risk of extinction, and the ocean is losing its function as a life-giving water that cools the Earth's heat and absorbs carbon dioxide,” he said. “The international community must conclude a global ocean treaty before it is too late.” “We have to save it,” he said.

In order to save the ocean in crisis, Greenpeace has been carrying out the 30x30 campaign since 2019 with offices in over 20 countries around the world to designate 30% of the ocean as a protected area by 2030. As a result, more than 100 countries around the world, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and Germany, have officially expressed support for 30×30, and Korea also announced its intention to participate in the 30×30 initiative at the P4G Summit in May last year.

The United Nations Intergovernmental Conference on the Conservation of Marine Biological Diversity was established to conserve declining marine life and prepare a legally binding ocean treaty. The first meeting was held in 2018, and the second and third meetings were held in 2019. The fourth meeting was held in March this year after being postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, but ended without reaching an agreement on signing a global maritime treaty.

At the 5th meeting of the UN BBNJ Convention, which is being held from the 15th to the 26th, major agenda items include △discussion and establishment of area-based management measures, including marine protected areas, and △discussion and establishment of environmental impact assessments. While government officials from each UN-affiliated country attended the meeting, the Korean government dispatched a government delegation consisting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries to the site. On the 5th, Greenpeace sent an official letter to the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries requesting that high-ranking government officials attend the meeting in person and to add strength to political negotiations to ensure the expansion and implementation of marine protected areas.

Campaigner Kim said, “As the Korean government declared its official support for the 30x30 Initiative last year, we must take the lead in helping a global maritime treaty come to fruition at this conference.” He added, “Korea, which was one of the countries that opposed the conclusion of a maritime treaty in the past, has recently become a member of the international community for the protection of the high seas.” We are changing our stance on this. In particular, in October last year, the Committee for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) supported the designation of a new marine protected area in Antarctica. “We hope that Korea, a maritime power, will show leadership in protecting pollution not only in Antarctica but also around the world,” he said.

Greenpeace plans to directly participate in the 5th meeting of the UN Convention on the Conservation of Marine Biological Diversity and monitor key agenda issues while carrying out various activities to urge decisive decision-making by governments.

Meanwhile, Greenpeace originally planned to hold this drone show on the 9th before the UN agreement, but due to unexpected record-breaking heavy rain, it was postponed and will be held today while the agreement is in progress.