


Latest News

Marine

3 minutes

June 13, 2023 

Written by: Greenpeace Seoul Office

What I found when I put a drone into the sea (feat. 100m oil derrick)

May 2023: Greenpeace Australia released previously unreleased footage of an abandoned derrick owned by Woodside. This oil derrick is sinking to the seabed off the coast of Onslow in Western Australia, threatening the ocean.


Why is the oil derrick there?

Greenpeace used a drone to film the rusting and rotting Woodside oil derrick sinking to the seabed off the coast of Onslow, Western Australia.

This photo was taken by Greenpeace using an underwater drone. The oil derrick, which is about 100 meters high, is very old even when seen with the naked eye. The derrick remained upright and sank to 47 meters below sea level. Greenpeace is calling on Woodside to urgently demolish the structure and dispose of it safely on land.

The derrick, which was used at Australian mining company BHP Group's Griffin oil field, is now owned by Woodside after the company acquired BHP Group's oil and gas assets last year.

Environmental activists for 20 years were also shocked.

David Ritter, head of Greenpeace Australia, said the sunken derrick made it difficult to trust Woodside and the gas industry to protect the marine environment.

“As someone who has been involved in environmental activism for nearly 20 years, I am usually not shocked. “But I was appalled by the arrogance of Woodside and BHP, who thought it was okay to dump 100 meters of industrial waste into the sea.”

Whales and dolphins drifting near an abandoned oil derrick

Australia Office Representative, David Ritter

“ This is not a small structure. It is the size of an apartment. Even to the naked eye, it is rusty, and it is rotting on the ocean floor, which is full of marine life such as whales and dolphins. “The fact that Woodside thought they could just hide this waste under the sea shows that we can no longer trust this company.”

“Woodside could end up paying up to $9 billion in cleanup costs for dumping its oil and gas facilities into the sea. Much of that infrastructure was acquired from BHP Group last year. Investors should ask Woodside about recovery provisions (the company's obligation to dismantle, remove and restore tangible assets). And we must ask whether we have buried another dirty and expensive secret at sea.”

Oil derricks must be safely removed and disposed of on land.

Greenpeace operates an underwater drone to film the Woodside oil derrick.

“NOPSEMA ordered the derrick to be removed, but Woodside and BHP have so far failed to do so. Greenpeace urges Woodside to comply with regulators’ orders and immediately remove the derrick for safe disposal.”

To locate the sunken derrick, Greenpeace used an underwater drone. The oil derrick was rusty to the naked eye, and was sunk in a place full of marine animals. At the site, Greenpeace observed cetaceans such as long-beaked dolphins and oceanic bottlenose dolphins, as well as numerous sharks and other fish species.


We need your voices to stop the destruction of Woodside's oceans.

Oppose the destruction of the oceans

All research activities are sponsored by citizens.

Support Greenpeace













