


Latest News

Marine

5 minutes 

August 25, 2023

Written by: Greenpeace Seoul Office

Global Maritime Treaty: What does it contain?

A global maritime treaty agreed upon after a long wait. We have taken an important step toward protecting the marine ecosystem and protecting marine life. So, what is included in this maritime treaty? Let's take a look at the contents of the maritime treaty, which can only be implemented if more than 60 countries around the world complete ratification by 2025.

Last March, after lengthy negotiations, a global maritime treaty was agreed upon at the United Nations. If 30% of the high seas is designated as a marine protected area by 2030 under the Ocean Treaty, the marine ecosystem currently in danger can be protected. The Global Oceans Treaty is legally binding, and when it comes into effect, it can become a norm that will strongly protect the high seas and respond to the environmental crisis that the Earth is currently experiencing.

So, what does this maritime treaty contain, and what will actually change?


Regulates the use of marine genetic resources.

Numerous algae and microorganisms exist in the open sea. Depending on how their genetic information is used, it can be of great help to humanity. Benefits will be gained by utilizing marine genetic resources (MGR) in the open sea and biotechnology information utilizing these resources.

Through a global maritime treaty, a system can be established that not only shares information on marine genetic resources collected from the high seas and the deep seabed, but also supports the development of marine technology in developing countries. Sustainable marine development and marine technology development in developing countries will become possible, and we will be able to continue protecting the marine environment on the high seas.

Designate marine protected areas to secure and preserve biodiversity.

Each government and international organizations will cooperate to designate marine protected areas to preserve high sea marine biodiversity.

In particular, the designation of marine protected areas in the high seas had many shortcomings, but through this treaty, we hope to build the capacity to develop, implement, monitor, and manage high seas marine protected areas through strengthening the capabilities of developing countries and transferring marine technology. You will be supported.

 
An environmental impact assessment will be conducted.

The Global Maritime Treaty stipulates procedures for each country to conduct environmental impact assessments and share the results when carrying out maritime activities. Through environmental impact assessment, before any activity in the ocean is conducted, it is managed to determine how it will affect biodiversity in the open seas and how, if any, negative impacts can be avoided or mitigated.

Although the country will conduct an environmental impact assessment and consider the results of the assessment to decide whether to carry out activities, a system will be introduced where science and technology organizations will be able to provide input to the country at some stage.

Capacity building and maritime technology transfer in developing countries are carried out.

This provision applies to all three provisions mentioned above. The goal is to equip developing countries with the resources, knowledge, and technology to participate in and benefit from maritime treaties. This includes sharing knowledge and research, collaborating with scientific institutions, developing infrastructure, and providing tools for monitoring.

In order to strengthen the capabilities of developing countries, developed countries will define the level of maritime technology transfer obligations and provide various support methods for developing countries wishing to transfer technology.

The global maritime treaty agreed upon this time is an important first step toward protecting the high seas. It is significant in that it is the first global multilateral treaty aimed at protecting the environment and marine biodiversity in high seas areas, which account for approximately two-thirds of the ocean surface area.

However, the treaty can only come into effect after it is ratified by more than 60 countries by 2025. The countries that signed the treaty must agree after final review in accordance with domestic law. We must continue to pay attention and actively speak out so that the government of the Republic of Korea can quickly ratify its responsibility for pollution protection.

Protect the ocean together



