


Latest News

Marine

3 mins

January 5, 2016

Written by: Greenpeace Seoul Office

Is it just tuna in a tuna can?

Our country is one of the world's leading tuna consumers. Koreans’ love for tuna is truly special. But is tuna the only thing in the canned tuna we like to eat?


Tuna kimchi stew, tuna fried rice, braised tuna tofu, tuna salad... These are foods that often appear on our dinner table because they are easy to make and delicious. Tuna, loved by many people regardless of age or gender, is a truly magical food ingredient.

However, tuna, a food that is so familiar to us, has recently been attracting attention from around the world for a slightly different reason. The reasons include the destruction of the marine ecosystem due to indiscriminate overfishing and bycatch, and the horrific human rights violations that occur on ships.

Everyone, did you know that the title of this Greenpeace series article is “Is it just tuna?” This title has a special meaning. When we open a can of tuna, all we see inside is tuna meat that has been caught from a distant sea and gone through a clean process. But behind it all, there is a story about the tears of fishermen, the empty sea, and the marine ecosystem in crisis.


Tuna species in danger of extinction

Among fishermen, tuna is called ‘the outlaw of the sea’ or ‘the bull of the sea.’ In the case of some fish species, their length alone is over 2m, which is well over the height of an adult man, their body weight is twice that of a cow, and their swimming speed when hunting is faster than that of Ryu Hyun-jin's helmet or a cheetah running across the grassland. It is said to be ‘160 km per hour’.

Tuna, which we know as tuna, is broadly classified into seven fish species. Albacore tuna eaten in the United States, yellowfin tuna loved by Europeans, skipjack tuna easily found in canned tuna in Korea, bluefin tuna popular as top-quality raw fish (Atlantic bluefin tuna, southern bluefin tuna, Pacific bluefin tuna), and finally, There is a bigeye tuna that can be easily found in raw fish restaurants.

Among them, Atlantic bluefin tuna and southern bluefin tuna are listed as 'endangered' and 'critically endangered' respectively on the list of endangered species, also known as the "Red List", published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. Species', and Pacific bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna are classified as 'vulnerable to extinction'.











