


Latest News

Marine

3 minutes

May 16, 2023 

Written by: Greenpeace Seoul Office

Woodside's gas exploration blocks whales' path

A whale swimming in the sea spending a peaceful afternoon. But why? Suddenly, I couldn't go out on the road due to an ear-piercing sound. It's the path I used to swim every day, and it's near a UNESCO protected area. How did it happen?

The reason why it burst into the sea

Gas company Woodside is planning seismic surveys near whale migration routes off Australia's northwest coast. Seismic exploration is a method of artificially generating strong waves and then analyzing the return pattern of the waves to determine the geological structure of the seafloor. It is commonly used to find resource deposits under the sea. Woodside's seismic exploration plans pose a major threat to endangered whales, according to a new report from Greenpeace Australia .

Woodside's seismic exploration plan aims to find deposits of natural gas, a fossil fuel. According to Greenpeace's report "Blasting the Ocean", the plan is being implemented very close to the main migratory route of pygmy blue whales as well as the Ningaloo Reef, which is a protected area by UNESCO.

A whale that can't hear is a dead whale

Richard George, senior campaigner at Greenpeace Australia, said Woodside had failed to mitigate damage to marine life from its seismic exploration plans.

“ For seismic exploration, explosions are one of the loudest sounds coming from the ocean. The noise from the explosion could cause irreparable harm to the whale's hearing. Whales communicate and find food through sound. “A whale that cannot hear properly is as good as a dead whale.”

“Woodside’s risky explosion plan is half-prepared, and the company’s probe has been hovering off the coast of Western Australia for months while regulators review the plan. Blasting for seismic surveys can occur during the main whale migration season. This could have a serious impact on whale population decline. “We are risking all this to extract more gas and worsen climate change.”





Dr. Lindy Weilgart, a world-renowned whale expert, says pygmy blue whales are particularly sensitive to the noise of seismic surveys. He emphasizes that Woodside needs to find more ways to reduce the risk to whales.

“Baline whales, such as pygmy blue whales, appear to be particularly sensitive to the noise of air guns used in seismic surveys. Seismic exploration should be conducted at least with a noise buffer zone and avoiding marine protected areas. Additionally, there are alternatives that generate less noise than exploration using air guns, so those methods should be chosen first.”




Main contents of Greenpeace's 'Blasting the Ocean' report

1. Woodside Energy is threatening the whales' sanctuary with dangerous seismic exploration and gas mining.
2. The waters where Woodside conducts seismic surveys are very close to whale migration routes and the UNESCO-protected Ningaloo Reef.
3. Research is showing that the noise from seismic surveys can permanently damage the hearing of whales and fish.
4. Greenpeace sees Woodside's plan as a particular threat to pygmy blue whales. The plan includes conducting seismic surveys of endangered pygmy blue whales during their migration period.
5. In the worst case, seismic exploration could harm marine life up to 1,000 km away.




Right now, Greenpeace is on the front lines to stop ocean destruction. The environmental surveillance ship Rainbow Warrior sails the coast of Western Australia from April to June, directly preventing Woodside and carrying out on-site activities to protect the marine ecosystem.




Please join the petition now and protect the whale's sanctuary with Greenpeace.

together












