
MainContainer
Register interest campaign

marine protection
start date
November 2013
Area of ​​interest
global
20%

Article
campaign goal
In order to protect the sea as a sustainable space, we would like to request UN member countries, including Korea, to enact a maritime treaty and designate an internationally binding 'marine protected area'.

Did you know?
The high seas, which account for 61% of the total ocean area, are completely unprotected from mankind's profit-seeking activities. Despite the most effective ways to protect the ocean, only 2% of the world's oceans are marine protected areas, which do not allow any human activities such as fishing, scientific experiments, or tourism.

problem
The ocean is suffering from climate change, plastic pollution, deep-sea mining, oil drilling, fishing, and other human profit-seeking activities. Over the past few decades, populations of marine life, including sea turtles, coral reefs, and sharks, have declined dramatically.

The problem is that there is no international agreement to protect waters outside national jurisdiction, that is, the high seas.

Greenpeace is demanding that the international community fulfill its responsibility to protect the high seas through the enactment of the UN Ocean Treaty, which will serve as the basis for the designation of 'marine protected areas'.

research and investigation
Starting with the Antarctic Ocean Protection Campaign in 2018, Greenpeace has worked with academia to raise awareness of the crisis and severity facing the ocean and the need for ocean protection.

June 2021 (Completed)
In celebration of World Oceans Day, a report titled ‘Marine Protected Areas, Solutions for Oceans in Crisis’ is published.

July 2022 (Completed)
Global shark report <Hooked on Sharks> published, detailing the destructive shark overfishing activities caused by longline fishing in oceans around the world

January - March 2022 (Completed)
An Antarctic expedition was conducted with the Greenpeace environmental monitoring ship 'Arctic Sunrise' to conduct research on changes in the Antarctic ecosystem and marine environment due to the climate crisis.

March 2022 (Completed)
Global ‘Squid Report Squids in the Spotlight’ published, detailing the destructive overfishing of squid in oceans around the world

campaign activities
Greenpeace conducts surveys and research activities using environmental surveillance ships to raise awareness of the urgency of concluding the UN Oceans Treaty, and together with 'Ocean Defender', a citizen group that conveys Greenpeace's message of ocean protection, the Korean government delegation A contract was requested.

June 2022 (Completed)
In celebration of World Oceans Day, we held a giveaway event of 'sea creature illustration wallpaper' such as whales, penguins, coral reefs, etc. to send a message about expanding marine protected areas on the high seas.

July 2022 (Completed)
Greenpeace holds a Greenpeace Antarctic photo exhibition in Yongsan, Seoul, vividly capturing the Antarctic ecosystem witnessed from an environmental surveillance ship.

August 2022 (Completed)
Three hundred drones flew endangered sea creatures into the night sky of Seoul Forest Park, urging world leaders, including Korea, to sign a global maritime treaty.

February 2023 (Completed)
A marine protection screening was held on a large screen at Hangang Park to encourage the conclusion of a maritime treaty.

March 2023 (Completed)
A historic 'Global Ocean Treaty' was signed to protect the world's oceans at the UN Convention on the Conservation of Marine Biological Diversity emergency meeting held in March 2023.

Latest marine conservation activities

press release
July 14, 2022
[Press release] A family of sharks disappears... ‘Longline fishing’ considered to be the cause of the rapid decline in sharks

Marine Press Release
July 14, 2022
[Press release] Greenpeace holds ‘Antarctica photo exhibition’ in crisis due to climate change

Marine Press Release
August 18, 2022
[Press release] Woo Young-woo’s beloved whale appears in the Seoul sky, “Please save the sea”

Marine Press Release
February 16, 2023
[Press release] Large screen video appeared in Hangang Park. Please protect the high seas, human assets, by signing a global maritime treaty.

press release
Reading time 4 March 6, 2023
[Press Release] UN ‘Global Ocean Treaty concluded’...Greenpeace “A new leap forward in ocean protection to alleviate the climate crisis”


