


Latest News 

Marine

9 minutes 

August 8, 2015


Written by: Park Tae-hyun, Marine Protection Campaigner, Greenpeace Seoul Office

Korea, an ocean powerhouse, was designated as an illegal fishing country and its escape story



Over the past two years, Korea has been designated as an illegal fishing country and a reserve illegal fishing country by the United States and the European Union, and the Korean deep-sea industry has been in a major crisis. Until the designation as an illegal fishing country was lifted by the United States and the European Union in February and April 2015, respectively, there were major changes such as major law revisions and reform measures for the development of the deep-sea industry. During all of this, Greenpeace raised its voice and advocated for Korea's We have called for the prevention of illegal fishing.






When checking the country of origin of clean and fresh-looking seafood at a neat supermarket, I would usually feel confident choosing it if it said 'Produced in Oceania.' This is because we recognize that deep-sea fish are ‘good fish caught by our fishermen.’

However, over the past two years, Korea has been designated as an illegal fishing country and a preliminary illegal fishing country by the United States and the European Union, and the Korean deep-sea industry has been in a major crisis. Until the designation as an illegal fishing country was lifted by the United States and the European Union in February and April 2015, respectively, there were major changes such as major law revisions and reform measures for the development of the deep-sea industry. During all of this, Greenpeace raised its voice and advocated for Korea's We have called for the prevention of illegal fishing.





Illegal fishing by Korean deep-sea fishing boats in various waters around the world has been revealed.


Committing illegal fishing (IUU; Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated) directly leads to loss of international status. Not only is it an action that is not in line with international social norms for Korea, a member of the OECD, to commit, but it is also an outdated action that depletes public resources that everyone uses for the short-term interests of a few. As cases of illegal fishing by Korean deep-sea fishing vessels have been revealed, and as a result of this, Korea has been designated as an illegal fishing country by the United States and a preliminary illegal fishing country by the European Union, Korea has not yet taken the lead in solving the common challenges of the 21st century. It clearly showed that it exists.

Illegal fishing is a destructive fishing method that threatens the marine ecosystem, robs coastal countries of resources, and is often associated with dirty industrial methods, including frequent violations of seafarers' human rights. There are 34 cases listed in the report on the status of illegal fishing published by Greenpeace in April 2013 . Illegal fishing in Korea was not simply the fault of some deep-sea fishing vessels, but a structural problem of the deep-sea industry that was rampant in the world's oceans, from tuna and toothfish to migratory fish. It was even more shocking that among the companies that committed illegal fishing were familiar companies representing Korea .



