
GNB
East Asia
Campaign news
Get involved
Sponsor

mainContainer
Ocean
OCEANS

article
A healthy sea
Not only is it a home for more than 700,000 species of life, but it is also essential for the survival of the entire planet. Providing jobs and food for billions of people, the oceans are vital to human health and well-being.

pargraph01
But now the oceans are in greater danger than ever. Marine ecosystems are facing serious threats due to worsening pollution caused by plastic and other toxic substances, destructive fishing practices, and even climate change. However, if we work together, we will be able to save the ocean and protect the countless marine life and people who make their home in the ocean.

Greenpeace activities
Greenpeace calls for the designation of marine protected areas to ensure safe and healthy oceans. We work to protect our oceans by fighting against destructive fishing practices and campaigning to stop plastic pollution and climate change.

marine protection
Ocean
161 posts updated

plastic zero
Ocean
105 post updates

Eradicate illegal fishing
Ocean
6 post updates

sign
Join the change now
Let’s protect the ocean together now
Sign Now

history
1970 ~ 1989
anti-whaling
In 1975, the first whale protection activity began by blocking a Russian whaling ship using a rubber boat.

seal protection
In 1978, the Rainbow Warrior sailed to the Orkney Islands in Scotland to prevent seal hunting.

Temporary ban on commercial whaling
In 1982, due to strong demands from citizens around the world, the International Whaling Commission declared a temporary ban on commercial whaling.

1990 ~ 2009
Antarctica World Park
As a result of a seven-year campaign, 39 countries signed the Antarctic Treaty and pledged to protect Antarctica from development.

whale sanctuary
In 1994, following Greenpeace's anti-whaling action, the International Whaling Commission decided to ban whaling in Antarctica.

Opposition to the import of nuclear waste
In 1999, we worked in cooperation with domestic environmental groups to prevent Taiwan's nuclear waste from being imported into North Korea.

2010 ~ 2017
October 22, 2012
Ocean
Citizens' voices for protecting the Antarctic Ocean are relayed to the Korean government delegation

November 17, 2014
Ocean
Nice to meet you, nice tuna!

December 05, 2012
Ocean
Government abandons submission of scientific whaling plan

August 8, 2015
Ocean
Korea, an ocean powerhouse, was designated as an illegal fishing country and its escape story

2018 ~
January 5, 2016
Ocean
Is it just tuna in a tuna can?
amazon coral reef
In December 2018, the Brazilian government canceled the Amazon oil drilling license granted to oil company Total.

November 14, 2018
Ocean
Penguin's dream collapsed, but Greenpeace dreams again

pargraph02
The use of fossil fuels is accelerating climate change and ocean acidification, putting the oceans at risk. Destructive fishing practices are destroying marine habitats and putting many species at risk of extinction. Scientists say the extinction of marine life in the next century could be the worst since the age of the dinosaurs. But we can stop this crisis. If we act together, we can save the ocean and the creatures living in it from crisis and protect our green planet.

SPONSOR

Make a difference by donating!
Greenpeace operates solely on individual donations to ensure political and financial independence. Thanks to your support, Greenpeace can tackle urgent environmental issues.

Regular sponsorship
(ERROR) The minimum amount for regular sponsorship is 15,000 won.
Sponsor

One-time sponsorship
(ERROR)The minimum one-time sponsorship amount is 50,000 won.

slider01
Daily Challenge for the Earth

Ocean
Avoid eating endangered seafood
1386 people participating
Join us

Ocean
Do not eat fry (young fish) or fish eggs
820 people participating
Join us

Ocean
Cleaning up trash from beaches and sandy beaches
828 people participating
Join us

Ocean
Use an inorganic sunscreen that does not contain oxybenzone or octinoxate, which kill coral reefs.
670 people participating
Join us

Ocean
Avoid using facial cleansers or household products containing microplastics
1281 people participating
Join us

banner
There has never been a more important time to protect the ocean. We must act now.

Related news

marine report
[Report] Marine Protection through Global Ocean Treaties - Roadmap to Achieve 30x30
September 14, 2023

Marine Latest News
What changes have occurred since the designation of a marine protected area?
5 minutes September 7, 2023

Marine Press Release
'Stop for now' deep sea mining, threat still remains
5 minutes August 29, 2023


footer
Greenpeace is an independent international environmental organization born in 1971 that campaigns in a peaceful manner through non-violent direct action for global environmental protection and peace.

our activities
See all projects
View all issues

About Greenpeace
outline
mission
Behavior
report
people
ambassador
Recruitment
contact
frequently asked questions
financial report

Follow us
https://www.facebook.com/greenpeacekorea
https://twitter.com/i/flow/login?redirect_after_login=%2Fgreenpeacekorea
https://www.youtube.com/greenpeacekorea
https://www.instagram.com/greenpeacekorea/

Press releases and media 
Information of interest
Sponsor Login
Privacy Policy 
Greenpeace Terms of Use 
Copyright 
Previous homepage 
revenue 
Ministry of Public Administration and Security 
Unique number certificate
Copyright © 2023 Greenpeace. All Rights Reserved. | Greenpeace Foundation | Representative: Nambu Won | Address: 6th floor, Cheongryong Building, 257 Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul (Zip code: 04322) | Identification number: 105-82-21567