


report

plastic

60 minutes 

November 24, 2021

Written by: Yeom Jeong-hoon Greenpeace Plastic Campaigner

[Report] 2021 Plastic Stay-at-Home Survey: The Real Face of Disposability


Greenpeace today (22nd) announced the report '2021 Plastic Home Survey: The Real Face of Disposable', which surveyed the status of plastic waste in 841 households across the country to determine the status of disposable plastic emissions by domestic companies.



841 households (a total of 2,671 people) participated in this survey conducted by Greenpeace to urge major plastic emitting companies to reduce their use of plastic. This is the largest citizen-participatory survey on plastic emissions conducted in Korea. Participants recorded plastic waste generated from their homes for a week from August 23rd to 29th, categorized by manufacturer, product line, material, and quantity.

According to the survey, packaging materials for the food we eat and drink every day accounted for an overwhelming share of 78.1% of total plastic emissions (77,288 pieces of plastic waste in total). The next largest product group was personal hygiene products, accounting for 14.6% of the total. In particular, more than half (53.8%) of personal hygiene products were disposable masks, which appears to be an effect of the prolonged special situation called COVID-19.

As a result of analyzing plastic waste discharged by manufacturer, the top 10 food manufacturers accounted for 23.9% of total emissions. The top 10 food manufacturers are Lotte Chilsung Beverage, CJ CheilJedang, Nongshim, Lotte Confectionery, Coca-Cola, Pulmuone, Ottogi, Dongwon F&B, Jeju Special Self-Governing Province Development Corporation (Samdasoo production and sales), and Maeil Dairies.

This survey proved that the largest source of plastic emissions in the home is food and beverage products. In particular, the fact that the top 10 companies account for nearly ¼ of plastic waste shows that change is only possible if they take the lead in reducing plastic use.

Therefore, in order to solve the overflow of plastic waste, we need to move away from a business model that relies on plastic packaging materials that are used once and then discarded, and build a business model that allows for reusable containers and refills.

Food manufacturers will need to listen to the vivid voices of consumers in order to survive in the huge trend of ESG (environment, society, governance), which has become a hot topic this year. If we reduce the use of single-use plastics in our daily lives as much as possible and continue to demand that governments and companies solve the problem, we can solve the plastic problem together. Please join us so that companies can have the courage to create a plastic-free society.

Join the campaign










