


press release

July 14, 2022

Text: Greenpeace

[Press release] Greenpeace holds ‘Antarctica photo exhibition’ in crisis due to climate change

Vivid testimony to the polar ecosystem crisis through field exploration photos from Antarctica

It also provides an opportunity to experience Antarctic exploration indirectly by passing a structure reminiscent of a glacier.

[2022.07.14] _ Greenpeace, an international environmental organization, will hold the '2022 Greenpeace Antarctica Photo Exhibition' from July 14th to July 31st at the Cafe Street on the 4th floor of I'Park Mall in Yongsan, Seoul.

In this photo exhibition, Greenpeace plans to inform the public of the severity of the increasingly worsening climate crisis through about 20 Antarctic photography works. The photos on display were obtained by members of the Greenpeace Antarctic Exploration Team who directly explored the Antarctic ecosystem and changes in the marine environment aboard the Greenpeace environmental surveillance ship Arctic Sunrise for two months starting in January of this year. This photo exhibition, which captures realistic Antarctic exploration sites, disappearing glaciers, and changes in penguin habitats, provides an opportunity to take a deeper look at the current climate crisis.





The 2022 Greenpeace Antarctic Photo Exhibition will feature not only photos but also spatial presentations with the motif of glaciers floating in the Antarctic Ocean. Visitors can experience an even more special exhibition by moving through a space reminiscent of a glacier site, viewing photos, and indirectly experiencing the Antarctic exploration journey.




Danah Choi, Greenpeace citizen participation campaigner who planned the exhibition, said, “This photo exhibition was planned for free so that more citizens can empathize with the seriousness of climate change. “We ask that as many children and parents participate so that they can realize its importance.” Visitors can receive postcards containing exhibition works, organic hand towels, and climate change storybooks through on-site SNS hashtag participation events and temporary sponsorship participation programs. Greenpeace Ocean Campaigner Kim Yeon-ha said, “Despite extreme climate change, “The Antarctic undersea ecosystem has not yet let go of life, but in an increasingly hot climate, sea ice, the home of Antarctic creatures, is melting rapidly,” he said. “Antarctic sea ice has doubled the size of Korea in the past five years since it recorded its lowest area in 2017.” He pointed out, “The amount of ice has disappeared, reducing it to the lowest level on record this year.”

The Greenpeace Antarctic Exploration Team emphasizes the urgent need to designate protected areas in the world's oceans, including Antarctic waters, to prevent sea ice loss and protect marine ecosystems. In order to protect Antarctica and the world's oceans that are quietly collapsing, the conclusion of a strong global maritime treaty is urgently needed. Accordingly, the United Nations convened a conference on the Bilateral Marine Biodiversity Conservation (BBNJ) Convention, and discussions on establishing a global marine treaty are scheduled to be completed at the 5th meeting held on August 15 this year.

Greenpeace plans to continue its campaign activities targeting countries around the world, including Korea, until a strong global ocean treaty is reached called 30x30, which designates more than 30% of the high seas as marine protected areas by 2030.

The international environmental group Greenpeace began in 1971 when 12 activists sailed from Vancouver, Canada in a small boat to stop the U.S. government's nuclear testing. Greenpeace, which started as a small group, has grown over 51 years into an international environmental organization with regional offices in 57 countries. Greenpeace's Seoul office, part of the East Asia branch, is carrying out a peaceful and creative campaign to uncover the causes of global environmental problems and solve them.

