


Latest News

Marine

5 minutes 

September 7, 2023

Written by: Greenpeace Seoul Office

What changes have occurred since the designation of a marine protected area?

Currently, less than 1.2% of the high seas is designated as a marine protected area, and only 0.8% of the high seas is an absolute conservation area where no human activities such as fishing, scientific experiments, or tourism are allowed. It is obvious that we need to increase marine protected areas to preserve and protect the ocean, but are marine protected areas actually effective? Will the sea come back to life if it is designated as a marine protected area? Some people may have questions. In fact, we would like to introduce three overseas cases where the ecosystem regained vitality and had a positive impact after being designated as a marine protected area.

The return of the sharks, Ashmore Reef Marine Park, Australia

Ashmore Reef is a treasure trove of biodiversity, home to a variety of species. Although only traditional fishing by fishermen or fishing for livelihood in limited areas was permitted, illegal fishing was in fact prevalent. In 2004, the Australian Institute of Marine Science discovered that some species of Ashmore sharks had disappeared and their populations were declining. When sharks disappeared, the entire ecosystem began to shake.

Accordingly, the Australian government will create strong regulations to combat illegal fishing. Since 2008, Border Guard vessels have been stationed at the area at all times, and Ashmore Reef has been thoroughly managed as an absolute conservation area where fishing is not possible. Since then, the number of illegal fishing boats, which had reached 260 over the past four years, has decreased significantly, and in 2017, only three boats were caught.

Additionally, more than 4.5 times more gray reef sharks were observed in 2016 than in 2004, and various additional shark species such as tiger sharks and Atlantic bow sharks were also discovered. Sharks are back at Ashmore Reef.

Currently, most of Ashmore Reef Marine Park belongs to the Sanctuary Zone, which has the highest level of protection for marine life according to the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) classification.


A protected area created by local residents, Cabo Pulmo National Park, Mexico

Mexico's Cabo Pulmo National Marine Park is home to fish, crustaceans, molluscs, birds, and marine mammals, including endangered species. However, over the decades, it has begun to lose its original appearance due to overfishing and irresponsible tourism. Fish populations have declined and marine ecosystems have collapsed.

Residents lobbied the government and enlisted the help of international scientists to have Cabo Pulmo designated a marine protected area. When Cabo Pulmo was designated as a marine protected area in 1995, 35% of the area was set as a no-fishing zone, and residents protected the entire sea area of ​​Cabo Pulmo as an absolute conservation area where fishery resources are virtually not harvested.

In 2009, 15 years later, the greatly damaged ocean was restored to its original state. From 1999 to 2009, total fish biomass increased by more than 460%, top predator biomass increased by 11-fold over 10 years, and biomass of predatory fish species increased by 20% per year, for a total increase of 4-fold. It was also revealed that the diversity of marine life has increased.

The designation of Cabo Pulmo National Park as a marine protected area was largely due to the local residents who voluntarily stopped fishing and worked hard to protect the ecosystem. The case of Cabo Pulmo National Park demonstrates how marine protected areas can protect biodiversity, improve fisheries, and even boost the local economy through tourism. Instead of engaging in destructive fishing, we can develop and profit from sustainable tourism products.

Spillover effect, Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary, USA

The Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary is home to a variety of endangered species. This is a place where you can directly observe marine mammals, including humpback whales. It consists of 11 protected areas where fishing is completely prohibited and two conservation areas where limited fishing is allowed.

Through constant monitoring, scientists have been able to confirm that the ocean and the ecosystem within it are improving. In particular, both fish density and biomass have increased for some species that were indiscriminately overfished in the past, and the continued expansion of kelp forests, which play a very important role in the marine ecosystem, has been observed. It is also important to note that the average biomass of overfished fish such as rockfish has continued to increase since the designation of marine protected areas.

Additionally, spiny lobsters, which play a very important role in the California coast, plummeted in the late 19th century due to commercial fishing, and the average size and lifespan of lobsters also decreased. Fortunately, after designation as a marine protected area, the population of spiny lobsters here increased. In addition, it was revealed that after designation of a marine protected area, the catch near this area increased by about 225%, and fishing activity also increased by 250%.

In addition, the most striking thing is the change outside the protected area. There are concerns that if marine protected areas are designated, fishermen will naturally fish in non-protected areas and the amount of fish in outside areas will decrease. However, as a result, it was confirmed that the number of fish increased even outside the marine protected area. This phenomenon of the effect spreading outside of marine protected areas is called the spillover effect.

Marine protected areas have a more practical effect than we vaguely thought. In addition to the three examples above, we can see the powerful power of marine protected areas in the cases of Monterey Bay in California, USA, Papahanomokuakia Marine National Monument in Hawaii, Ramlash Bay in Scotland, and the Ross Sea in Antarctica .

So, what should we do now? A movement is beginning to expand marine protected areas through global ocean treaties. The global maritime treaty can only go into effect when more than 60 countries ratify it by 2025.

Please continue to pay attention so that the Korean government can quickly ratify its responsibility for pollution protection. Please join us in speaking out for the ocean.

Protect the ocean together






