


press release

July 14, 2022

Written by Jungeun Baek

[Press release] A family of sharks disappears... ‘Longline fishing’ considered to be the cause of the rapid decline in sharks


Greenpeace, an international environmental group, published a report on July 14th to mark ‘Shark Awareness Day’.

The shark population is gradually disappearing due to overfishing in longline longline fishing to catch swordfish, an ingredient in tuna sashimi.

The disappearance of sharks, the top predators in the ocean food chain, would cause a serious crisis in the marine ecosystem.

The global shark product market size increases every year, reaching close to 1.3 trillion won per year.

The world's three largest shark meat importing countries are Italy, Brazil, and Spain... Korea ranks 8th in the world.

Urges governments, including Korea, to designate 30% of open seas as protected areas by 2030



July 14, 2022 – The population of sharks, which play a key role in the marine ecosystem, has been found to be rapidly decreasing in the North Atlantic region due to overfishing through longline fishing. Greenpeace, an international environmental organization, published a report containing related research results on July 14th to mark 'Shark Awareness Day'.

According to a study published in the scientific journal Nature, the global shark population has decreased by 71% over the past 50 years due to indiscriminate shark fishing, and this change in shark population is closely related to longline fishing in shark habitats.

Longline fishing is a fishing method that catches fish by attaching bait to the end of thousands of fishing lines on a long rope. On an average fishing day in the North Atlantic, there are 1,200 km of longline line and 15,000-28,000 fishing hooks in the water. It is estimated that

The North Atlantic longline fishery nominally targets swordfish, known as tuna sashimi ingredients, but relies on shark bycatch to maintain revenue, according to the report. However, regulations to prevent this are not keeping up with the speed at which sharks, a key species in the ecosystem, are falling into serious danger.




Sharks are the top predators of the sea and play an important role in maintaining the balance of the marine ecosystem and food chain. If sharks disappear from the food chain, the marine ecosystem will rapidly collapse, ultimately weakening the ocean's ability to absorb carbon and heat from the atmosphere.

Despite the important role sharks play in the marine ecosystem, global demand for shark products continues to increase. The scale now amounts to 1.3 trillion won (approximately 1 billion dollars) annually globally. Europe is a major player in the global shark trade, and traces of sharks can be found in a variety of products, from pet food to cosmetics.

The shark meat market is reminiscent of a trading site. In terms of weight, Brazil imports the largest amount, and in terms of quantity, Uruguay is one of the top importers and exporters. In Asia, Indonesia and China are major exporters, while Korea and Thailand import large quantities. Korea is also the world's 8th largest importer of shark meat in USD terms, with an amount of approximately 8.7 billion won (approximately 6.7 million dollars) as of 2020, or approximately 2,474 tons in weight.

Greenpeace ocean campaigner Kim Yeon-ha said, “If the current destructive shark fishing continues while marine life is in danger due to the climate crisis, sharks will become extinct,” adding, “The UN Convention on the Conservation of Marine Biological Diversity will be held on the 15th of next month.” "We must protect the marine ecosystem by supporting a strong maritime treaty that can designate marine protected areas. We expect the Korean government to demonstrate leadership for marine protection at this meeting," he emphasized.

This August, governments from around the world will gather together to discuss signing a global maritime treaty. A strong treaty will be the foundation for achieving the goal of '30 If this treaty is not finalized this year, the realization of 30







