


report

plastic

 3 minutes

August 31, 2021

Written by: Yeom Jeong-hoon Greenpeace Plastic Campaigner

[Report] Report on the status of disposable plastics by domestic food manufacturers

Greenpeace has been running a campaign for several years now, demanding that FMCG (consumer goods) companies reduce unnecessary plastic packaging. Now it's South Korea's turn. Check the survey results and performance of Korea's top five food manufacturers now.



The largest user of plastic is packaging, with approximately 40% of plastic produced in 2015 being used to package other items. In particular, disposable plastic packaging products such as food, beverages, cosmetics, and detergents that are discarded after one use can be said to be the main culprit of mass production and overconsumption of plastic. When classifying the world's plastic flowing into the ocean, food packaging accounted for 14% and plastic water bottles accounted for 11.9%. In addition, disposable plastics related to food, such as dishes (9.4%) and plastic food packaging (9%), accounted for 44.3% of the total. This is because the food and beverage industry is the largest sector of the Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) industry that uses the most plastic packaging.

Since the end of March 2021, Greenpeace Seoul office has conducted a survey targeting the five largest food manufacturers in Korea regarding their plastic usage and efforts and plans to reduce it. The main results evaluated according to the four criteria of reduction, transparency, innovation, and policy are as follows.





Lotte Chilsung Beverage, CJ CheilJedang, Ottogi, and Nongshim received an overall grade of D, and Dongwon F&B received an F, indicating an inadequate level of problem response.

All surveyed companies proposed partial plastic reduction efforts, but when compared to total production, the reduction amount was only insignificant, averaging around 5%.

No company presents a mid- to long-term roadmap with plastic reduction goals.

When asked whether they would transparently disclose their plastic usage, all companies except Lotte Chilsung Beverage responded that they were conducting an internal review or had no plans to do so.

In the case of Lotte Chilsung Beverage, it disclosed three years of plastic production on its website during the survey period.





So how should domestic food manufacturers change? As the first step to solving the single-use plastic problem, Greenpeace urges food manufacturers to disclose the amount of disposable plastic used and declare specific reduction goals. This is because usage must be transparently disclosed in order to establish and implement an accurate reduction plan based on it. In addition, food manufacturers must make efforts to reduce unnecessary use of single-use plastics. A company-wide policy and system shift is needed that expands partial efforts, such as weight reduction and tray elimination, to the entire product. Now, food manufacturers must quickly change the existing linear economy structure of production-consumption-disposal to a circular economy system that allows reuse and refilling. To ensure that this system can be quickly established, companies must consult with the government and actively participate in enacting related laws. Because we can never solve the plastic crisis we face without drastic change.

Check the report for specific details and evaluation scores for each food manufacturer, as well as insufficient alternatives and Greenpeace requirements.







